Getting and Cleaning Data
Course Project
Code Book

Study Design
The instructions for this course project gave the following web address for data to be used

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

The data initially resides in a zip file named UCI HAR Dataset which contains files and folders as follows:
1.  activity_labels.txt
2.  features.txt
3.  features_info.txt
4.  README.txt
5   A folder with test data
6.  A folder with training data

The data was read into R using read.table.  It was necessary to merge files and in the process it was also 
necessary to add ID columns for the merges.  The instructions for the course project required only columns 
with mean or standard deviation and the rest of the columns were ignored.

The course project requirements were outlined in 5 "steps" or processes that were to be completed in the
designated order.
1.  Merge the training and test sets into one data set.
2.  Extract only those measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
3.  Use descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set.
4.  Appropriately label then data set with descriptive activity names.
5.  Create a second, independent data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each
    subject.
    
An R script named run_analysis.R contains the code I wrote to accomplish the above 5 steps.  Step 1 consists
of reading in the data using read.table, verifying the stucture of the data sets were suitable for merging,
creating ID columns using rownames, and then performing the appropriated merges.  Step 2 was simply reading
in the features files and using grepl to extract the appropriate means and standard deviation data.  Step 3
consisted of reading in the activity labels files, assigning column labels of "activity_id" and 
"activity_label" and merging that into the data set.  Step 4 uses gsub and a for loop to name the columns
 appropriately(using descriptions in the activities file).  Step 5 was merely using aggregate to compute
the average(mean) of each variable by each activity and each subject.  
 
The resulting TIDY data set was written as a text file named submit.txt.
 
 





 
